---
title: Deploy Django project with gunicorn and nginx
date: 2020-02-05
tags:
- django
- deploy django
- gunicorn
- nginx
---

Recently I developed a project using Django as backend framework, and Vuetify as the frontend, and I want to write down the process about how to deploy Django with gunicorn, PostgreSQL, and nginx since I didn’t find too many detailed posts about these combinations.


### Install packages

First of all, install all the packages we’re going to use with the following command.

```shell
$ sudo apt-get install python3-pip python3-dev libpq-dev postgresql postgresql-contrib nginx -y
```

### Setup Database

After the installation, we need to start up the database server(in case of the database server doesn’t automatically startup) and access the postgres prompt to create a database and user for our Django project.

Use the following command to access postgres prompt.
```
$ sudo -u postgres psql
```

And create user and database.

```shell
db setting
postgres=# CREATE DATABASE db_name;
CREATE DATABASE
postgres=# CREATE USER admin WITH PASSWORD 'password';
CREATE ROLE
postgres=# ALTER ROLE admin SET client_encoding TO 'utf8';
ALTER ROLE
postgres=# ALTER ROLE admin SET default_transaction_isolation TO 'read committed';
ALTER ROLE
postgres=# ALTER ROLE admin SET timezone TO 'UST';
ALTER ROLE
postgres=# GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE db_name TO admin;
GRANT
postgres=# \q
```

### Setup Python environment

I prefer to use `virtualenvwrapper` to manage my python virtualenvs, it easy to use and manage than the original python virtualenv program. 

```shell
$ pip3 install virtualenvwrapper
```

And then, we need to add the following lines to the .bashrc(or the config file for whatever shell you use) file, feel free to change the paths if needed.

```shell
# virtualenvwrapper settings
export VIRTUALENVWRAPPER_PYTHON=/usr/bin/python3
export VIRTUALENVWRAPPER_VIRTUALENV=$HOME/.local/bin/virtualenv
source $HOME/.local/bin/virtualenvwrapper.sh
```

Source the .bashrc file or restart your shell. Now we can simply run following commands to create a virtualenv.
```shell
$ mkvirtualenv env
```
And activate. 
```shell
$ workon env
```

### Setup Django project

I think we are not going to talk too much detail about how to initiate a Django project, I assume you already have a ready-to-deploy Django project, and we’ll focus on how to create different setting modules for production and developing mode.

Now, you have only one setting file which is `my_project/my_project/settings.py`, and we need to change the structure of the setting modules as follows.

Run following commands in the root directory of your Django project.
```shell
$ cd my_project     
$ mkdir settings 
$ mv settings.py settings/debug.py 
$ cp settings/debug.py settings/production.py
```

What we’ve done is move the existing setting module into `settings` directory and rename it to `debug.py` which is for developing mode, also copied another file called `production.py`, for production mode.

```shell
my_project/my_project/settings/debug.py
my_project/my_project/settings/production.py
```

We'll leave the `debug.py` as the current state, and focus only on the `production.py`.

First, and the most important setting we need to change is `DEBUG` option, Django set the `DEBUG` option to `True` by default, we need to change it to `False` in production mode as mentioned in the [Django Official Document.](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.0/ref/settings/#std:setting-DEBUG)

Also, read the `SECRET_KEY` from the env variable instead of hard code into setting file, and update `DATABASES` config to the database information we created above.
```Python
SECRET_KEY = os.environ['DJANGO_SECRET_KEY']

# ...
# other configs
# ...

DATABASES = {
    'default': {
        'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.postgresql',
        'NAME': 'db_name',
        'USER': 'admin',
        'PASSWORD': 'password',
        'HOST': 'localhost',
        'PORT': 5432
    }
}
```

Since we’ve changed the path of the settings module, we also need to change the references to the setting modules. By default, the setting modules are referenced in two places, `manage.py` and `wsgi.py`.

```Python
os.environ.setdefault('DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE', 'my_project.settings')
```

The code simply checks that if the system env variable `DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE` is exists, if it doesn’t, set it to `my_project.settings` which is the path of default setting module, and here we need to change the path to `my_project.settings.debug`, this allows us to still use the debug settings module when developing.
And if we set `DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE` env variable to `my_project.settings.production` in our production server, Django will read the production setting module as default.

### Setup gunicorn

Install gunicorn with pip.
```shell
$ pip install gunicorn
```

And create a gunicorn service file.
```
/etc/systemd/system/gunicorn.service
```
Paste in following content.
```
[Unit]
Description=gunicorn daemon
After=network.target

[Service]
User=username
Group=www-data
WorkingDirectory=/path/to/django/project/root/directory
EnvironmentFile=/path/to/envs/file
ExecStart=/home/username/.virtualenvs/env/bin/gunicorn --access-logfile - --workers 3 --bind unix:/path/to/django/project/root/directory/gunicorn.sock my_project.wsgi:application

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Note that the `EnvironmentFile=/path/to/envs/file` option, somehow, gunicorn can’t read the system env variables properly in my ubuntu server, so the fix for this is to create a file containing the env variables and set the `EnvironmentFile` option in gunicorn service file and the content of the envs file is as follows.
```
DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE='my_project.settings.production'
DJANGO_SECRET_KEY='yoursecretkey'
```
>The system env variables are still needed since they will be when running manage.py.

Start and enable gunicorn service.
```
$ sudo systemctl start gunicorn
$ sudo systemctl enable gunicorn
```

### Setup nginx

Since we’ve bind our Django project to a unix socket with gunicorn, the only thing we need to do with nginx is to set a proxy to the unix socket.

```
server {
    listen 80;
    server_name example.com;

    location = /favicon.ico { access_log off; log_not_found off; }
    location /static/ {
        root /path/to/django/project/root/directory;
    }

    location / {
        include proxy_params;
        proxy_pass http://unix:/path/to/django/project/root/directory/gunicorn.sock;
    }
}
```

Last, restart the nginx service.
```shell
$ sudo systemctl restart nginx
```

That’s it, now type the domain name(or IP) in your browser, we should see the index page of your Django project.